---
title: Seahorse Project one report
---

Date: Monday, October 1, 2018

Author: Michael McGrath

Reviewers: TBD

Version History
===============

V0.0 First draft, not for review

Table of figures
================

[Figure 1 Original Data Lifecycle Model 3](#_Toc526154944)

Introduction
============

This paper is the output from the first Seahorse project. The goal of this
project is to define a working dataThis paper describes the first Seahorse
project. The goal of this project is to define a working data lifecycle model
(DLM) that is practical in use and is as complete as possible. The DLM is based
of the Initial data lifecycle model, described below.

The growing role of data.
-------------------------

The growth in data is exceptional. While estimated of just how much data exists
vary all estimates show the same trend, exponential growth. Khoso (Khoso, 2016)
estimates that data in 2016 totaled around 4.4 Zetabytes and that that would
grow to ten times that by 2020. Even email is growing by over 4% per year
(Radicati & Hoang, 2017). In tandem with the growth in data there is a
corresponding growth in storage required to persist that data. Additionally we
see that the majority of that data is in unstructured forms; Khoso (Khoso, 2016)
estimates that about 90% of data created is unstructured, this view is supported
by practitioners (V Cloud News, 2015) who also asserted that 90% has been
created in the last year.

There is also great value to this data, for example a report by focusing on data
in the automotive industry suggests that *“The expected growth of the value pool
from car data and shared mobility could add up to more than USD 1.5 trillion by
2030”* (Balasubramanian et al., 2016) and that this data used in AI *“… could
potentially deliver additional economic output of around \$13 trillion by 2030,
boosting global GDP by about 1.2 percent a year”* (“Modeling the global economic
impact of AI \| McKinsey,” n.d.).

In addition, some practitioners have reported other problems most notably that
there are no common data formats, little metadata and little interoperability
because the systems exist in independent and distinct systems(Sohn, 2017). It is
even asserted that these issues place such a financial burden on the health
industry as to be a noteworthy contributor to rising costs (Wang, Kung, & Byrd,
2018).

The DLM is important because it will provide the basis for the next project
which will describe an objective method and model to identify the total
lifecycle cost and value of data.

Methodology
-----------

The method used is simple. A search of documented DLMs was performed and where
there were gaps or differences identified these were evaluated and the original
DLM was modified or not, accordingly.

Initial data lifecycle model
============================

![](media/fc94fc9705041cb21bb4a7bea18a0137.png)

Figure 1 Original Data Lifecycle Model

Documentation reviewed
======================

Changes to the data lifecycle model from the literature
=======================================================

Modified model
==============

Conclusion
==========

Appendix
========

Bibliography
============

Balasubramanian, J., Belker, S., Chauhan, S., Colombo, T., Hansson, F.,
Inampudi, S., … Kässer, M. (2016). Car data: paving the way to value-creating
mobility. *McKinsey & Company*, (March). Retrieved from
https://www.mckinsey.com/\~/media/McKinsey/Industries/Automotive and
Assembly/Our Insights/Creating value from car data/Creating value from car
data.ashx

Khoso, M. (2016). How Much Data is Produced Every Day? Retrieved August 20,
2017, from
http://www.northeastern.edu/levelblog/2016/05/13/how-much-data-produced-every-day/

Modeling the global economic impact of AI \| McKinsey. (n.d.). Retrieved
September 24, 2018, from
https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/artificial-intelligence/notes-from-the-ai-frontier-modeling-the-impact-of-ai-on-the-world-economy

Radicati, S., & Hoang, Q. (2017). *Email Statistics Report, 2017-2021*. *Email
Statistics report, 2017-2021 - Executive Summary* (Vol. 44). London. Retrieved
from http://www.radicati.com

Sohn, A. (2017). You Want to do What With Your Data? Retrieved September 8,
2018, from
https://bigdata.cioreview.com/cxoinsight/you-want-to-do-what-with-your-data-nid-27091-cid-15.html

V Cloud News. (2015). Every day Big Data Statistics - 2.5 Quintillion Bytes of
Data Created Daily. Retrieved August 20, 2017, from
http://www.vcloudnews.com/every-day-big-data-statistics-2-5-quintillion-bytes-of-data-created-daily/

Wang, Y., Kung, L. A., & Byrd, T. A. (2018). Big data analytics: Understanding
its capabilities and potential benefits for healthcare organizations.
*Technological Forecasting and Social Change*, *126*, 3–13.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2015.12.019
